{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1671
{\fonttbl\f0\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica-Bold;\f1\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;}
{\*\listtable{\list\listtemplateid1\listhybrid{\listlevel\levelnfc0\levelnfcn0\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace360\levelindent0{\*\levelmarker \{decimal\}.}{\leveltext\leveltemplateid1\'02\'00.;}{\levelnumbers\'01;}\fi-360\li720\lin720 }{\listname ;}\listid1}}
{\*\listoverridetable{\listoverride\listid1\listoverridecount0\ls1}}
\vieww17900\viewh17220\viewkind0
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\b\fs42 \cf0 SP Assignment\

\f1\b0\fs28 \CocoaLigature0 \

\f0\b\fs36 \CocoaLigature1 Introduction:-\

\f1\b0\fs28 \CocoaLigature0 \
The 
\f0\b user interface
\f1\b0  (
\f0\b UI
\f1\b0 ), in the  {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Industrial_design"}}{\fldrslt industrial desig\kerning1\expnd5\expndtw26
n}}  field of  {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Human%E2%80%93computer_interaction"}}{\fldrslt human\'96computer interactio\kerning1\expnd5\expndtw26
n}} , is the space where interactions between humans and machines occur. The goal of this interaction is to allow effective operation and control of the machine from the human end, whilst the machine simultaneously feeds back information that aids the operators\'92  {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Decision-making"}}{\fldrslt decision-makin\kerning1\expnd5\expndtw26
g}}  process. \
\
\

\f0\b\fs36 \CocoaLigature1 Types of User Interface:-\

\f1\b0\fs28 \CocoaLigature0 \
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\tx7280\tx7840\tx8400\tx8960\tx9520\tx10080\li1120\fi-1120\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0
\ls1\ilvl0
\fs24 \cf0 \CocoaLigature1 {\listtext	1.	}
\fs28 \CocoaLigature0 CLI\
\ls1\ilvl0
\fs24 \CocoaLigature1 {\listtext	2.	}
\fs28 \CocoaLigature0 GUI\
\ls1\ilvl0
\fs24 \CocoaLigature1 {\listtext	3.	}
\fs28 \CocoaLigature0 Menu driven Interface\
\ls1\ilvl0
\fs24 \CocoaLigature1 {\listtext	4.	}
\fs28 \CocoaLigature0 Form based interfaces\
\ls1\ilvl0
\fs24 \CocoaLigature1 {\listtext	5.	}
\fs28 \CocoaLigature0 NUI\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\b\fs30 \cf0 \CocoaLigature1 CLI -\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f1\b0\fs28 \cf0 \CocoaLigature0 \
\
The CLI was the primary means of interaction with most computer systems on  {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Computer_terminal"}}{\fldrslt computer terminal\kerning1\expnd5\expndtw26
s}}  in the mid-1960s, and continued to be used throughout the 1970s and 1980s on  {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/OpenVMS"}}{\fldrslt OpenVM\kerning1\expnd5\expndtw26
S}} ,  {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Unix"}}{\fldrslt Uni\kerning1\expnd5\expndtw26
x}}  systems and personal computer systems including  {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/MS-DOS"}}{\fldrslt MS-DO\kerning1\expnd5\expndtw26
S}} ,  {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/CP/M"}}{\fldrslt CP/\kerning1\expnd5\expndtw26
M}}  and  {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Apple_DOS"}}{\fldrslt Apple DO\kerning1\expnd5\expndtw26
S}} . The interface is usually implemented with a command line  [shell]({\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Shell_(computing))"}}{\fldrslt https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Shell_(computing))}} , which is a program that accepts commands as text input and converts commands into appropriate operating system functions. This type of interface has the drawback that it requires the operator to remember a range of different commands and is not ideal for novice users.\
\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\b\fs30 \cf0 \CocoaLigature1 GUI. -\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f1\b0\fs28 \cf0 \CocoaLigature0 \
\
The interface which replace cryptic command by their graphical representation is called GUI, it is a form of  {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/User_interface"}}{\fldrslt user interfac\kerning1\expnd5\expndtw26
e}}  that allows  [users]({\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/User_(computing))"}}{\fldrslt https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/User_(computing))}}  to  {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Human%E2%80%93computer_interaction"}}{\fldrslt interact with electronic device\kerning1\expnd5\expndtw26
s}}  through graphical  {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Computer_icon"}}{\fldrslt icon\kerning1\expnd5\expndtw26
s}}  and visual indicators such as secondary notation, instead of  {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Text-based_user_interface"}}{\fldrslt text-based user interface\kerning1\expnd5\expndtw26
s}} , typed command labels or text navigation. GUIs were introduced in reaction to the perceived steep  {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Learning_curve"}}{\fldrslt learning curv\kerning1\expnd5\expndtw26
e}}  of  [command-line interfaces]\
Examples are Windows, Mac OS, Ubuntu, iOS, Android operating systems.\
\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\b\fs30 \cf0 \CocoaLigature1 MENU DRIVEN U I -\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f1\b0\fs28 \cf0 \CocoaLigature0 \
\
A 
\f0\b menu-driven interface
\f1\b0  is, simply, an easier way of navigating the devices and programs we interact with on a daily basis. It employs a series of screens, or \'91'menus,'' that allow users to make choices about what to do next. A menu-driven interface can use a list format or graphics, with one selection leading to the next menu screen, until the user has completed the desired outcome.\
\
Menu-driven interfaces are preferred for their simplicity and user-friendly properties. This allows you to accomplish such tasks as getting cash from an ATM.\
\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\b\fs30 \cf0 \CocoaLigature1 FORM BASED U I -\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f1\b0\fs28 \cf0 \CocoaLigature0 \
\
A 
\f0\b form-based interface
\f1\b0  is a kind of  {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki/User_interface"}}{\fldrslt user interfac\kerning1\expnd5\expndtw26
e}} . In it, the user interacts with the application by selecting one of a number of possible values, and by entering text into the fields that accept it. \
\
A form-based interface uses text-boxes, drop-down menus, text areas, check boxes, radio boxes and buttons to create an electronic form which a user completes in order to enter data into a system. This is commonly used on websites to gather data from a user, or in call centres to allow operators to quickly enter information gathered over the phone\
\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\b\fs30 \cf0 \CocoaLigature1 NATURAL LANGUAGE UI -\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f1\b0\fs28 \cf0 \CocoaLigature0 \
\
A natural language interface is a spoken interface where the user interacts with the computer by talking to it. Sometimes referred to as a \'91conversational interface', this interface simulates having a conversation with a computer.  Commonly used by telephone systems as an alternative to the user pressing numbered buttons the user can speak their responses instead.\
This is the kind of interface used by the popular  {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/iPhone"}}{\fldrslt iPhon\kerning1\expnd5\expndtw26
e}}  application called  {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Siri"}}{\fldrslt Sir\kerning1\expnd5\expndtw26
i}}  and  {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Cortana"}}{\fldrslt Cortan\kerning1\expnd5\expndtw26
a}}  in  {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Windows"}}{\fldrslt Window\kerning1\expnd5\expndtw26
s}} .\
\
\
RUNTIME Environmental  -\
\
As soon as a software program is executed, it is in a  {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://techterms.com/definition/runtime"}}{\fldrslt runtim\kerning1\expnd5\expndtw26
e}}  state. In this state, the program can send instructions to the computer\'92s processor and access the computer's memory ( {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://techterms.com/definition/ram"}}{\fldrslt RA\kerning1\expnd5\expndtw26
M}} ) and other system resources.\
When software developers write programs, they need to test them in the runtime environment. Therefore, software development programs often include an RTE component that allows the programmer to test the program while it is running. This allows the program to be run in an environment where the programmer can track the instructions being processed by the program and  {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://techterms.com/definition/debug"}}{\fldrslt debu\kerning1\expnd5\expndtw26
g}}  any errors that may arise. If the program crashes, the RTE software keeps running and may provide important information about why the program crashed. When you see the name of a software program with the initials \'93RTE" after it, it usually means the software includes a runtime environment.\
While developers use RTE software to build programs, RTE programs are available to everyday computer users as well. Software such as Adobe  {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://techterms.com/definition/flash"}}{\fldrslt Flas\kerning1\expnd5\expndtw26
h}}  Player and Microsoft PowerPoint Viewer allow Flash movies and PowerPoint presentations to be run within the player software. These programs provide a runtime environment for their respective file formats. The most common type of RTE, however, is the Java RTE (or  {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://techterms.com/definition/jre"}}{\fldrslt JR\kerning1\expnd5\expndtw26
E}} ), which allows Java  {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://techterms.com/definition/applet"}}{\fldrslt applet\kerning1\expnd5\expndtw26
s}}  and applications to be run on any computer with JRE installed.\
\
The Java Runtime Environment (JRE) is a set of software tools for development of Java applications. It combines the Java Virtual Machine (JVM), platform core classes and supporting libraries.}